We were talking about football and that game in
Austin and so forth. What athletic events do you
remember most in those first three years? Well, of
course, that game was quite important. The game we
beat the University of Texas here in 1939 was when
we cinched the championship. because we were
tied. We were zero, I think, in the first play. In
the second, we had a hideout play, and Herb Smith
caught a pass for a touchdown. We beat them 21 to
nothing. As far as you know, did athletes go to
class and graduate then pretty well? I really
can't say particularly what they did. Of course,
most of them at that time, they better have gone
through and and get their commissions and go on. I
think that's what most of them did. Were there any
of those football players that you all respected
highly? Of course, Kimbrough was outstanding, of
course, I guess. He was a fine fellow. He even
caught a ride with him one time in this thing. He had
his own car and whatnot. What was your impression
of him? Well, I think he was a fine fellow, really
was. In fact, I think that whole team was pretty
good. I had Buster Keaton, who was a junior yell
leader then, and was quite close to him, much more
so than now. He said, oh, Marshall Robnett, who was
a guard, he said that what old Robnett would do,
first play from scrimmage, he'd urinate all over
himself.
He was really rough and this sort of thing. That's
about all of them. I really can't say more than
that. What about the core leadership in terms of
the commandant and the advisors? Who were they
then? Well, of course, Colonel Welty was our
advisor for the Signal Corps. Colonel Davis, he
was an Aggie, and he was kind of permanent. He
wasn't a PMS&T. PMS&T, of course, was on active
duty, and they sent him here for several years.
And, of course, one of them, That was the PMS&T
wound up in Corregidor. I really can't say more
than that. Our own Lieutenant Lerner, I imagine he
was a signal coordinator sort of for it. We got
acquainted with the enlisted men, too. We took
code. So we had an enlisted man that teaches Mars
code in the Bolton Hall. And then Sergeant Snyder
was also with the Signal Corps, and when the war
came on, they gave him a commission. But that's
about all I can say about them. Did you know Colonel
Andy? Well, no, Colonel Andy was the track coach.
So he was not the commandant then? No.
Let's see, we mentioned Muster.
Final review. Was there final review held in those
days? Oh, sure. Where? On where they have final
reviews now, in front of the Memorial Student
Center. At that time, those were campus houses
along there. But for final review, just like it is
now, you marched around once with the seniors, and
then you marched again without the seniors. The
new seniors took over. They didn't go home and put
their boots on, though, or anything like that. And
it just went right through. I remember one time my
freshman year standing so straight. I don't know
if it was the final review of Mother's Day or
something. Anyway, I fainted. Because when you
stand straight and you don't wiggle your toes, the
next thing I knew I was on the ground.
As the war progressed, as Life gets more serious.
Did the freshman hazing here change? Well, I think
it let up quite a bit. I feel sure it must have
because we realized the seriousness of it. As I
say, when I was a company commander, I had them cut
it out. And you lived all of those pre-war years in
what is now the Corps? I lived in Dorm 1, but what
happened? In the summer of 40, no, let's see, the
fall of 42, they brought in a lot of Navy men for code
practice and for repair. So all 12 dormitories
were taken over by them, and we doubled up. in
Mitchell Hall, and all those, of course, we got
much smaller by then. We put three in a room. You'd
have
a bunk three high. So we lived in Mitchell Hall that
fall. Do you remember any changes in any
curriculum, any courses that seemed to be
war-related? No, not really. I kind of think we
eliminated final exams, I'm not sure, because of
the speed-up. Mm-hmm. And so at night, did you and
your buddies listen to the war news regularly? No,
I don't remember doing that. No, I really don't.
And you didn't take a daily paper. Nobody took a
newspaper. I think we did kind of, yeah. We kept up
with it, but I don't know that we dwelt on it a lot.
And as the war is going on, how often did you go home
to Dallas? Well, of course we had gas rationing. So
we went, I'd say, two or three times a semester. And
as I say, I went home that fall and got the car so I
could bring my date back and other people and that
sort of thing. And also you had to drive at 35 or 40
miles an hour. Now, did you keep the car down here
then? No, I didn't. I kept it down just for that
couple of weeks. No, no. And your microphone fell
down. Yeah. And of course you got gas rationing
stamps and this sort of thing. Let's see. I don't
know what I'm going to do. I'm going to put that
microphone right there and see if I can keep it.
Yeah. All right. You go away to the war and then come
back when? I came back the fall of 46. 46, not 45, 46.
No, this is what happened after the war was over.
You had a points system, and you had to get so many
points you were entitled to get out. Well, I didn't
go overseas, so I didn't get as many points as one
that did go overseas, so many of them are already
coming back for the summer semester and even for
the spring semester of 46. I had 40 hours to go. It
took three semesters, though, because of the
sequence of courses that I needed to take. What was
different about your attitude from being a
student in 46 than it ever was? I wanted to get
through school and get out and go to work. What had
you learned during the war that helped you in your
courses? Oh, I just got a maturity. I did get to be a
cryptographic officer. I did study teletype,
go through maintenance school, and then also
through the cryptographic machines. So I had more
of an idea of applications and this sort of thing.
But I mainly wanted to get through and get out and
get a job. Now, you said you were married and had a
youngster. I met my wife at the University of
Delaware. And I took her to her junior prom, but
that first date I said, I just met the girl I'm going
to marry. So after I got out of OCS and she
graduated, we got married. And we had one child in
the service, and the second one was born here while
I was back in school. And you all lived in, when you
came here, you lived where? The what? When you came
here with your wife and child, where did you all
live? Oh, we... She lived with my parents in Dallas
until College View Apartments opened, so I lived
in the dormitory. Describe life in College View.
In College View? Well, my wife is about the only one
that couldn't drive a car. She was a Yankee. But all
these Texas girls, they knew how to drive and
everything. And, of course, we were all veterans,
and they had different stories about pregnancy
and this sort of thing. And we played baseball. We
had baseball teams. And I had a bicycle. I didn't
have a car. And A&P in Bryan was the closest place
for a supermarket. So I'd ride that bicycle all the
way into Bryan to pick up our groceries and this
sort of thing. And it was just one big happy family.
All of us more or less had children. And they had a
great time together. I think it was a real way for
our oldest daughter to mature, to get with these
older boys. Were you a better student? Oh,
definitely. Oh, sure, definitely. Did your
grades show it? Yeah, pretty well. At that time,
you could exempt final exams if you had good enough
grades. I was taking an M.E. course, and I was going
to exempt, and So the prof came in and said, well,
everybody's going to have to take the final.
Somebody stole my grade book. Well, I was going to
get out. But then after a while, he came back and
says, well, my grade book came back. So I got out.
And there was a football player who stole that
grade book. So he got it back. Ed Holdridge told me
that story. Now, you were here how long after the
war? Well, I was here a full year. A full year. And
what did you think you were preparing yourself
for? What kind of career did you? Well, of course,
being an elected engineer, I could have gone with,
say, GE or Westinghouse or Alachammer's or a
utility or with a telephone company. Well, my
father worked for Graybar Electric Company in
Dallas, and so the branch manager in Houston
convinced me to go with them, which I did, worked
for them for nine years. And one of the
propositions was GE would take me and send me
through the test course where I would learn GE
equipment so that when I went with Graybar, I would
be able to sell the stuff better. So anyway, we
moved to Houston after graduation. And so at that
point, you weren't thinking about an academic
career? Nobody else was thinking of one for me
either. When I finally got one and I told my
daughter that I was going to teach at A&M, she says,
Daddy, you're not smart enough to teach. But after
I was in Houston for six years and got transferred
to Baton Rouge and then transferred back over. And
I was living here, traveling the territory when I
got a chance to teach. My next door neighbor was
Frank Vandiver in Baton Rouge for one summer.
Yeah, he was there taught for the summer. He was
down at Tulane at the time, and then he came over to
Rice, and that's when he was your prof, wasn't he?
I'm his first doctoral student. At Rice, yeah.
And, of course, we knew Susie, his first wife. We
went by and visited them and all that. Marvelous
person. Did you go to Mustard that senior year when
you came back? No, definitely. Did it seem
different to you after the war? Okay. It was in
front of what was the administration building. It
was there that day, and that's where we had our
muster. It was an afternoon meeting. Did things on
the campus seem more serious in 46, 47? Oh, I think
so. We were all predominantly veterans. And we
wanted to get in and get out. And I'm assuming that
hazing wasn't very prevalent then. No. What did
all of these young wives do? Well, they were mostly
pregnant. They didn't work, though, at all. I
mean, we got, I guess, $90 a month plus all of our
tuition, and that was about it. Did the GI Bill
pretty well pay your way? Well, yep, I think pretty
well. They also paid all the tuition costs and all
the books and this sort of thing. But then it wasn't
$90 a month. Where did you and your wife get your
furnishings for that College View? Oh, it was
furnished. Oh, it was. It had just the normal cots,
and it had, I think, a double bed in the bedroom and
bunk beds. How did y'all get here? How did you
arrive in College Station? How did we arrive?
Well, we just went up to Dallas on the train and
drove her back with what belongings we had. We had,
I guess, a baby bed we put her in and a little washing
machine and a few other things, and that was it.
Let's see, and you're not in the Corps as a veteran.
And were there some faculty members that were
really important to you as you look back now that
you had in that post-war year?
I really can't say there were any at all. If you
could, throughout all of your years at A&M, If you
could recall them
to life and thank them personally, to which
faculty members do you feel the most grateful?
Well, of course, the electrical engineering
class, Foyker. Which ones? Well, Foyker I thought
was nice, and Dillingham, Norman Road, and R.P.
Ward.
I thought the liberal arts, teachers were all very
good, the English and of course the math profs and
this sort of thing. I had Luther way back when I was a
freshman in trigonometry. And of course one
fellow I'm fond of is Alphabet Thompson, J. George
H. Thompson. And we had him in kinematics drawing.
This is before the war. And so he was talking about
he went to Penn State and what it cost him on the
weekend to have a date. And my roommate said, well,
I went up to TSCW and back for the weekend and I spent
25 cents. Well, he couldn't imagine that because
he hitchhiked and they fed him up there and that
sort of thing. I know I've heard many people refer
to Dr. Thompson with gratitude. Oh, yeah. What
were his trademarks? What did he do that was
special? Oh, I don't know. He was just genuinely
interested in me. I know when I was teaching, I had a
guy taking a course from me, and he questioned how I
had graded his papers. And I didn't know if he could
show me where he got it from, okay. And so he didn't
say any more. And a little while he came back, and he
confessed that he had cheated. And the way, what he
happened, so he, George noticed that he was just
kind of upset or something, didn't know what to do.
He finally asked him, what's wrong? And he told
him. And George says, well, you can do two things,
not do anything, or you can go back and tell me. But
you must remember, he can kick you out of school
because of that. So anyway, he came back and
confessed and told me the story and this sort of
thing. But of course, I wasn't going to do anything
about it. Did you give him any advice then? Who,
that young man? Yes. No, not really. I can't
remember giving him any advice. What else can you
say? Let me put in the notes here then, one that I had
like that. This was about March. I was in my office
talking to my grader, and a sophomore came, and he
said, I need to talk to you. I said, well, come back
in a few minutes because I'm busy right now. He came
back about a half hour later. And he closed the door
behind me, which is a little bit of a surprise. And
he sat down, and he had a Bible in his lap, which was
not common for a core sophomore. And I said, can I
help you? And he said, yes, sir, I wanted to tell
you. I cheated on your final exam last semester. I
said, oh, really? Tell me about it. Well, he said it
was in the big section, and four of us decided we'd
each study one-fourth of the material, and then
we'd pass the answers back and forth. Because we
set up on the back row. Yeah. And because he said, we
don't think anybody else would have done that. I
said, oh, I bet you're right. I bet nobody else has
ever tried to pass that. And I asked him what his
average was before the final, and he said 75. I
said, what does the final count? He said
one-fourth. And I said, how high would you have had
to make on the final to to have raised the 75 to a B.
And how low could you have made and not pull the 75
down to a C? And he realized, oh. And I said, why are
you telling me this? And he said, well, sir, I'm a
Baptist. And last night at BSU, we had a missionary
who gave us a Bible study and said, if you have
sinned against God, get out on your knees tonight.
And if you sinned against one of your fellow men, go
to that person and confess the sin. And he said,
that's why I'm here. I said, you didn't hurt me. I
said, you hurt yourself. And he thought I had the
authority to kick him out of school. And I said, if I
give you an F in this course, he said, when I get
home, my dad's going to beat the hell out of me. And
he said, we're farmers, so I'll just be farming.
And I said, what have you learned from this? And he
said, I'll never, never, never do this again.
Yeah. And I said, okay, I'll make a deal with you. As
of this moment, I will forget your name, and I may
tell this story many times, but I will never, ever,
ever do it. Yeah. If you will promise me that you'll
never, ever again do it. Yeah. And he shook my hand
and walked out, and I've always hoped that at some
point... This young man, because this is 30, 35
years ago, woke up to me. I'd like to know if he
remembers that. Yeah, I bet he did. You know he did.
All right, you said we were getting people to whom
you feel grateful that had a lifetime effect on
you. And you mentioned George Thompson last. Some
others? Were there any people that just gave you
advice? Well, of course, my fellow faculty
members, some of them were very helpful to me to get
started in this sort of thing, like John Dennison
and, of course, Dillingham. When he left, I took
over his office in this sort of thing. And Rode, he
wanted me to change out, but I didn't, you know, to
change and go into education. This is when I was
teaching, but I decided I didn't want to do that. I
tried it a little bit. Of course, one of the
students I like is one that he came into my office to
advise, and I was at my desk, and I was kind of
working, and he said, well, you know, would you
stop and pay attention to me? And I realized I've
got to give him attention, so my desk and then a
table, and after that I always turned away from my
desk and sat there and gave him my attention. I
think something as little as that, yeah. As you, do
you remember commencement, your undergraduate
commencement? We didn't have one because this was
August, so they didn't have one. Dr. Williams
directed me to plan the first August
commencement. Really? Yeah. He'd gotten two
letters from two different mothers who had said,
this is not fair. Our child graduated. He's
graduating this summer and got to wait until
December. They've got a job a long way away. What do
you think? And I said, I think this is a mandate. And
he said, do you think anybody will show up? Yeah.
We've proven how much they'll show up. Yeah. So how
well prepared did you feel you were when you
graduated? How well prepared did you think A&M had
been? Well, I was very much an average student, and
I really feel like I was, a
good place that I went was when I went in more into
sales. I really don't, I really, I was exposed to
all of it, but I really knew that I couldn't get into
something highly technical. While I was in the
service room, while I was in research in
Arlington, Virginia, after the war was over, but I
really, I couldn't do much then originally, this
sort of thing. So I guess I'm not a typical
graduate. And I, wonderful the way I've turned
out. I mean, how I fell into this job here and how I
felt that I really did a good job with the students
and this sort of thing. Of course, the recognition
I got and Did A&M help you get that first job? No,
uh-uh. At that time, of course, you had all these
different companies coming in and interviewing,
and they had nothing to do with it. No, and as I say,
because the guy I was going to work for had worked
with my father and so forth, and he wanted me, they
were hiring a lot of double E's then, but as it
turned out, we couldn't make much use of it, and I
was traveling, and I really wasn't, and I had a
chance, I talked to Randy
Mattson. I don't know, I guess you'd, Walt
Mattson. You remember him? Okay. But anyway, I
talked to him that spring because they had taken
some of my accounts away from me, the telephone
companies, incidentally. And I said, well, I'm
not using my engineering. And I talked to him. He
says, well, no, you just got your BS. And on
Wednesday before classes in September, he says,
go around and see MC Hughes. He might have a job for
you. I went over to see him, and they hired me at
lunchtime. I called Houston and went down and
resigned on Friday and helped with registration
on Saturday. That first job out of A&M, what was the
pay? Do you remember? $190 a month, and they were
scraping pretty good.
Let's see. Now let's see. Let's see. Did you buy an
Aggie ring? I have an Aggie ring. How much did it
cost, do you remember? Oh, back in those days,
about $25. And was the ritual the same then as now,
that almost everybody bought a ring? Oh, very
definitely. In fact, some guys would get somebody
else to buy a ring and give it to them. That's how
important it was. All right. Let's see, one that I
see I missed here, Aggie Bonfire. Was there a
bonfire your freshman year? Oh yeah, there was
always a bonfire. Where was it? It was out on the
drill field. And there was nothing much at all to
it. You know, this is awful what they do now, but we
got the railroads to bring in stuff for us. And it
was trash then, wasn't it? About all it was. And
we'd go and cut down a few trees. Let's see, I've
heard Mr. Rudder talk about trying to shoot out
that light bulb up on top of the- I've heard that
too. Was that done? No, no, I don't think so. Okay.
Let's see, we've already talked about hard
lickers. Okay, now let's, you came as a faculty
member in what year? It'd be the fall of 56th. And
this is the last one I'm going to ask of dollars and
cents. Do you remember what the pay was when you
started? $500 a month, I think. Maybe $550, I don't
know. And what was your title? Well, I was an
instructor. And what were your first duties? What
was my what? First duty. What were you assigned to
teach? Oh, okay. First term sophomore course. And
then labs, and a 307 course, which is for the
mechanical engineers, with the labs. And for a
number of years, we had the labs as well as the
theory, which was great, because this is really
where you got acquainted with them. So that was my
first semester. Nineteen contact hours. In
double E or in double E? In double E. Oh, yeah, I
stayed in double E. About how many were there, how
many faculty in the department field? Oh, eight or
nine, I guess. And you all were housed, where were
you all housed? Oh, in Bolton Hall. In Bolton. And
how would you compare the students that you had
that first year with the
students that were here when you arrived? Were
they better prepared than y'all were? Oh, I think
that what was really nice when I came back is you had
Corps and you had veterans. The veterans were very
much dedicated. And so as a result, the Corps was
too. They were good students. Because these were
Korean War veterans. These would have been Korean
War veterans in the mid-50s. Oh yeah, Korean War.
And so... A day for you as a faculty member began at
about what time and when did a day? Oh, 8 o'clock
till 5. Yeah, the collabs would go on to 5. Who was
the department head? M.C. Hughes. Describe him as
a... They called him Tubby. Tubby Hughes, he was a
big heavy man, and he had gone through the test
course, that is, with GE and this sort of thing,
and... I guess he came on back fairly soon after
that and was the department head for a number of
years. Who was the dean of engineering?
Gilchrist. And the dean of the faculty was Bolton.
And the president, Walton. Oh, yeah. And in what
manner did Professor Hughes lead the department?
Was he authoritarian? Was he democratic? Oh, I
think he was very fair and everything. He
certainly was fair to me. And I think he just was a
very regular type of department head. How, all
right, then we're doing a broad survey now of all
your years. How did the Department of Engineering
attempt to stay up to date with what it offered?
Well, of course, prior to up to World War II,
through the war, you still, as we were concerned,
in power, not much on electronics. And they were
all teaching very much traditional courses,
mechanical, civil, chemical, and this sort of
thing. The chemical engineering department was
pretty new. It was part of the chemistry
department until about World War II. And so it was a
very stable type of curriculum. But what about
after the war? How did... Well, of course, once the
transistor came in and they started doing this
sort of thing, then the whole picture changed. And
then, of course, all the field theory and much more
emphasis on electronics, on communications,
such as that. And so gradually it downplayed the
the power because this is not where most of the
students go anymore. Was there any program to give
you as a new faculty member any orientation? You
and your wife? Not a bit. But my wife's very
personal and she already knew a lot of the faculty
and this sort of thing. Where did y'all live? We
lived on 103 Dexter. This is the last block before
you